# Data-Science
A key component of buying management is anticipating product sales. Accurately predicting future demand for goods has been a persistent difficulty, particularly in the Supermarkets and Grocery Stores business, where forecasts are essential for calculating inventory stock levels. The entire profit may be at risk if items are not easily accessible or if supply exceeds demand. In order to guarantee that loss is kept to a minimum, sales forecasting for items might be crucial. To increase the accuracy of the forecasted product sales, a forecasting model is created in this analysis utilizing machine learning methods. The suggested model has been created specifically to support the potential purchase. To validate the use of the different machine learning methods, a model based on data from a real grocery shop is created. 

I am using a dataset from Information Resources, Inc. obtained proprietary scanner data from a nationally representative sample of retail food businesses for its Weekly Retail Food Sales series (IRI). Beginning with the week ending on October 6, 2019, sales information is released on a weekly basis. The dataset consists of 39 states with the total 51 subcategories product and 10 categories product both including alcohol. The states that are not included in the dataset are Alaska, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, New Jersey, North Dakota, Mississippi, Montana, and Washington, D.C., because IRI does not provide State-level data for those States and Washington, D.C.  

I chose this dataset because after working in a retail company for almost three years I start to realize a patterns with their sales after a while. I want to analyze how which grocery products makes a large amount of sale at what time of the year and why. For example, I started observing this dataset by looking at the basic information such as correlation between the variables. First, I focused on the “Category” variables which showed all the different products we would typically buy in any grocery store such as alcohol, dairy, meat, vegetables, etc. I created line plots for the last 3 years to show which product sold the most around which time of the year using the variable “Date” and “Price_Per_Unit”. There was a lot of price fluctuations in alcohol, meat, eggs, and nuts. The analyzing led to the conclusion of sugar/sweet, fruits, and oils are best tome to buy around holidays. Alcohol, grains, meats, eggs, nuts are great to by all year long. Vegetables are best to buy around March and September. Beverages are cheapest in the summer and dairy best around Christmas time, which are both very obvious. I did a North vs. South comparison which should South consumes more products, and it is understandable because there are two largest states in the South Texas and Florida due to why we are more populated and need more food. 

After doing all the EDA I decided to focus on the variable “Percent change dollar 1 year” which is the change in sales value since same week last year, as a percent of last year's sales value. Based on the Extra Tree Regression's high R-squared value of 0.955 and low MSE of 0.000278661, it looks to be the best model. This shows that the model has a low prediction error and can explain a significant amount of the variation in the data. For a specific set of variables, this model may be used to forecast the percent change in dollar sales. The model considers the potential effects of the factors in my investigation, such as volume sales, dollars, unit sales, state, category, and others, on sales. We can learn more about which factors are most crucial for boosting sales and how they interact from the model's output. When explaining the technique and output to a lay audience or executive team I would give a brief overview of what a regression is and how we can use the model for future predictions such as a statistical method that aids in understanding the relationship between several variables is regression analysis. Regression analysis was used to investigate the link between several variables in this example, including volume sales, total sales, seasonality, unit sales, state, and category, and the percent change in dollar sales for a certain product over the course of a year.To determine the most accurate technique to make this prediction, we tested a number of different regression models. The most accurate model allows us to forecast how changes in various factors, such as an increase in volume sales or a change in category, may affect the percent change in dollar sales for a certain product. Making decisions regarding price, promotion, and inventory management may be greatly helped by this knowledge as you try to comprehend the market. It's vital to bear in mind that this model is based on previous data and may not always be reliable in forecasting future sales. But it does offer insightful information that can assist us in making wise choices and maintaining our marketability. 

I used the R-squared value and mean squared error (MSE) are the performance metrics used to compare all the models. A higher R-squared value implies a better fit of the model. R-squared is a measure of how much of the variance in the dependent variable (percent change in dollar sales) can be explained by the independent variables (volume sales, dollars, unit sales, etc.). A lower MSE implies higher prediction accuracy since it calculates the average of the squared deviations between the expected and actual values. Due to the fact that they offer a precise and quantitative approach to assess the effectiveness of the various regression models. 

These performance metrics offer a distinct and quantitative approach to assess the effectiveness of the various regression models, thus they are likely to be well-received by senior leadership. When using a model to create forecasts and guide corporate strategy, they may assist leadership in making well-informed choices. Due, to the fact that they offer a means of assessing the efficacy of various models, approaches, or strategies, performance measurements are crucial for business. They may aid in determining areas that need improvement and serving as a decision-making tool. Businesses may streamline processes, lower expenses, and boost profitability by measuring and evaluating performance.

A strategy to deal with fairness and bias in AI/ML models is called "Fairness Through Awareness" (FTA). By promoting openness and raising understanding of the underlying data and model performance, FTA seeks to enhance the fairness of machine learning algorithms. FTA entails locating and eliminating possible bias-causing factors in the dataset and model, such as data imbalance, feature selection, and algorithmic bias. Geographic bias is one possible cause of bias in the USDA ERS Weekly Retail Food Sales dataset since some states or areas may be overrepresented or underrepresented. I examine the distribution of sales in Tennessee and different categories to see if there are any significant differences or imbalances. The model appears to be reasonably impartial or fair with regard to various demographic groupings, as indicated by the demographic parity ratio of 1.013031. It's crucial to remember that this ratio is simply one indicator of fairness and that it should be compared to other fairness measures in order to make sure that the model is not accidentally supporting current prejudices or inequities.
